initial draft of tidymodels q2 2022 highlights (#586)
tidyverse/tidyverse.org: content/blog/tidymodels-2022-q2/index.Rmd

---
output: hugodown::hugo_document

slug: tidymodels-2022-q2
title: "Q2 2022 tidymodels digest"
date: 2022-06-24
author: Emil Hvitfeldt
description: >
    Q2 marks the end of the season of case weights, with TKTK new releases.

photo:
  url: https://unsplash.com/photos/BBR_zigEmyQ
  author:  Samuel Girven

# one of: "deep-dive", "learn", "package", "programming", "roundup", or "other"
categories: [roundup] 
tags: [tidymodels, parsnip, recipes]
---

<!--
TODO:
* [X] Look over / edit the post's title in the yaml
* [X] Edit (or delete) the description; note this appears in the Twitter card
* [X] Pick category and tags (see existing with `hugodown::tidy_show_meta()`)
* [X] Find photo & update yaml metadata
* [X] Create `thumbnail-sq.jpg`; height and width should be equal
* [X] Create `thumbnail-wd.jpg`; width should be >5x height
* [X] `hugodown::use_tidy_thumbnails()`
* [X] Add intro sentence, e.g. the standard tagline for the package

> * [ ] `usethis::use_tidy_thanks()`

Author: This is being left unchecked to remind myself to rerun the functions at the end of Q2

Reviewer: One other thing to be sure of in the final rerun is to have only CRAN versions of tidymodels packages installed. 👍

- [parsnip](https://parsnip.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#parsnip-100)
- [plsmod](TODO)
- [poissonreg](https://poissonreg.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#poissonreg-100)
- [recipes](TODO)
- [rsample](https://rsample.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#rsample-100)
- [rules](https://rules.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#rules-100)
- [spatialsample](https://spatialsample.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#spatialsample-020)
- [stacks](https://stacks.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#stacks-023)
- [textrecipes](TODO)
- [themis](TODO)
- [tidyposterior](https://tidyposterior.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#tidyposterior-100)
- [tidypredict](https://tidypredict.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#tidypredict-049)
- [tune](TODO)
- [workflows](TODO)
- [workflowsets](TODO)
- [yardstick](https://yardstick.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#yardstick-100)

The `NEWS` files are linked here for each package; you'll notice that there are a lot! We know it may be bothersome to keep up with all these changes, so we want to draw your attention to our recent blog posts above and also highlight a few more useful updates in today's blog post.

> ## case weights

Author: This section feels kinda short. The problem I ran into when trying to write more paragraphs, was that they all felt very similar to anything written in https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2022/05/case-weights/. The user-facing syntax hasn't changed since this post and it felt weird "copy-pasting" it over.

Reviewer: I think I'd suggest copying at least a little over so folks get the flavor.

> ## case weights

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Case weights
```

Much of the work we have been doing so far this year has been related to case weights. For a more detailed account of the deliberations see this earlier post about the [use of case weights with tidymodels](https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2022/05/case-weights/).

> We are confident that we have created a good foundation with our implementation and we are signaling the support for case weights by bumping the version of affected packages and extension packages to 1.0.0.

Reviewer: I think I'd suggest moving the "1.0.0" discussion to the intro and not communicate that it is all about case weights, since some packages that use case weights like censored are not at 1.0.0 and some packages that didn't change for case weights like rsample did move to 1.0.0. Instead you can say here something about how we are confident about this good foundation and that's why it is included in these 1.0.0 releases.

> A full worked example can be found in the  [prevous blog post](tidyverse.org/blog/2022/05/case-weights/#tidymodels-syntax) and on [the tidymodels site](TODO).

Author: At least one of the tidymodels articles are in the works here: https://github.com/tidymodels/tidymodels.org/pull/251

> ## non-standard roles in recipes

Author: This section is based on https://github.com/tidymodels/recipes/pull/1011 and would thus change if the PR changes

> ## non-standard roles in recipes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Non-standard roles in recipes
```

> Recipes use the idea of roles to determine how and when the different variables are used. The main roles you have seen are "outcome", "predictor", and now "case_weights". You are also able to change the roles of these variables using `add_role()` and `update_role()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
recipes use the idea of roles to determine how and when the different variables are used. The main roles you have seen are "outcome", "predictor", and now "case_weights". You are also able to change the roles of these variables using `add_role()` and `update_role()`.
```
Do we capitalize because it's the beginning of a sentence or do we keep it lower case because that's its name?

Reviewer: The style guide says to not capitalize but instead prefer "The recipes package". Alternatively, we could treat it like a noun, i.e. "create a recipe", which would also be capitalized.

Reviewer: Let's change "you have seen" since it's not in this post itself and it would be good for this post to not make super strong assumptions about what folks know already.

> Recipes use the idea of roles to determine how and when the different variables are used. The main roles you have seen are "outcome", "predictor", and now "case_weights". You are also able to change the roles of these variables using `add_role()` and `update_role()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Recipes use the idea of roles to determine how and when the different variables are used. The main roles you have seen are `"outcome"`, `"predictor"`, and now `"case_weights"`. You are also able to change the roles of these variables using `add_role()` and `update_role()`.
```

> With a recent addition of case weights adding another type of standard role, we have made recipes more robust by having it check that all columns in the `data` supplied to `recipe()` are also present in the `new_data` supplied to `bake()` with the exception is made for columns with roles of either `"outcome"` or `"case_weights"`, which are typically not required at `bake()` time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With a recent addition of case weights as another type of standard role, we have made recipes more robust. It now checks that all columns in the `data` supplied to `recipe()` are also present in the `new_data` supplied to `bake()`. An exception is made for columns with roles of either `"outcome"` or `"case_weights"` because these are typically not required at `bake()` time.
```

> This change for stricter checking of roles will mean that you might need to make some small changes to your code if you are using non-standard roles. The function [update_role_requirements()](https://recipes.tidymodels.org/reference/update_role_requirements.html) can be used to specify whether a role will is required at bake time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change for stricter checking of roles will mean that you might need to make some small changes to your code if you are using non-standard roles. The function [update_role_requirements()](https://recipes.tidymodels.org/reference/update_role_requirements.html) lets you specify whether a role is required at bake time.
```

> This change for stricter checking of roles will mean that you might need to make some small changes to your code if you are using non-standard roles. The function [update_role_requirements()](https://recipes.tidymodels.org/reference/update_role_requirements.html) can be used to specify whether a role will is required at bake time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change for stricter checking of roles will mean that you might need to make some small changes to your code if you are using non-standard roles.
```

> We have shown before how you can use `update_role()` to remove variables as predictors by setting them as id variables. Suppose we were to do some preprocessing on the `tate_text` data set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's look at the `tate_text` data set as an example:
```

```{r}
data("tate_text")
glimpse(tate_text)
```

> This data set includes an id variable that shouldn't have any predictive power and a title variable that we want to ignore for now. Previously we would have created the following recipe to process this data, using `update_role(id, title, new_role = "id")` to let the recipe know that we don't want it to treat id and title as predictors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This data set includes an `id` variable that shouldn't have any predictive power and a `title` variable that we want to ignore for now. We can let the recipe know that we don't want it to treat `id` and `title` as predictors by giving them a different role which we will call `"id"` here:
```

```{r}
tate_rec <- recipe(year ~ ., data = tate_text) %>%
  update_role(id, title, new_role = "id") %>% 
  step_dummy_extract(artist, medium, sep = ", ")

tate_rec_prepped <- prep(tate_rec)
```

> And this works fine until we try to apply the recipe to new data with our predictors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will now error when we try to apply the recipe to new data that contains only our predictors
```

Reviewer: Add a colon ":" at the end of this line?

```{r, error=TRUE}
new_painting <- tibble(
  artist = "Hamilton, Richard",
  medium = "Letterpress on paper" 
)

bake(tate_rec_prepped, new_painting)
```

> This now complains because the recipe is expecting the `id` and `title` to be in the data set passed to `bake()`. This issue can be fixed by using `update_role_requirements()` as shown below to tell the recipe that variables of role `"id"` are not required when baking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It complains because the recipe is expecting the `id` and `title` variables to be in the data set passed to `bake()`. We can use [update_role_requirements()](https://recipes.tidymodels.org/reference/update_role_requirements.html) to tell the recipe that variables of role `"id"` are not required when baking and we are good to go!
```

```{r, warning=FALSE}
tate_rec <- recipe(year ~ ., data = tate_text) %>%
  update_role(id, title, new_role = "id") %>%
  update_role_requirements(role = "id", bake = FALSE) %>%
  step_dummy_extract(artist, medium, sep = ", ")

tate_rec_prepped <- prep(tate_rec)

bake(tate_rec_prepped, new_painting)
```

> ## Acknowledgements

Author: Everything listed here is in alphabetical order

- dials: [&#x0040;DavisVaughan](https://github.com/DavisVaughan), [&#x0040;EmilHvitfeldt](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt), [&#x0040;franzbischoff](https://github.com/franzbischoff), [&#x0040;hadley](https://github.com/hadley), [&#x0040;hfrick](https://github.com/hfrick), [&#x0040;mikemahoney218](https://github.com/mikemahoney218), [&#x0040;py9mrg](https://github.com/py9mrg), [&#x0040;simonpcouch](https://github.com/simonpcouch), and [&#x0040;topepo](https://github.com/topepo).

- discrim: [&#x0040;EmilHvitfeldt](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt), [&#x0040;hfrick](https://github.com/hfrick), [&#x0040;jmarshallnz](https://github.com/jmarshallnz), [&#x0040;juliasilge](https://github.com/juliasilge), and [&#x0040;topepo](https://github.com/topepo).

- embed: [&#x0040;EmilHvitfeldt](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt), [&#x0040;exsell-jc](https://github.com/exsell-jc), [&#x0040;juliasilge](https://github.com/juliasilge), [&#x0040;mkhansa](https://github.com/mkhansa), [&#x0040;talegari](https://github.com/talegari), and [&#x0040;topepo](https://github.com/topepo).

> - hardhat: [&#x0040;DavisVaughan](https://github.com/DavisVaughan), [&#x0040;jonthegeek](https://github.com/jonthegeek), [&#x0040;mdancho84](https://github.com/mdancho84), and [&#x0040;topepo](https://github.com/topepo).

Author: You are added here for https://github.com/tidymodels/hardhat/issues/206 🎉 

According to `?use_tidy_thanks`

> Derives a list of GitHub usernames, based on who has opened issues or pull requests.
